Department of Computer Science, University of Delhi has the proud privilege of being one of the earliest university departments in the country to offer three-year Master of Computer Applications (MCA) programme. In 2004, recognizing the growing importance of computer science research in the country, the department started two-year M.Sc. Computer Science programme. The department also has a vibrant Ph.D program with nearly 50 research scholars.
MCA programme aims to develop core competence for developing high quality software and adapting cutting edge and bleeding edge technologies. The MCA students, as part of their curricula undertake a project in the industry in their final semester. Projects are undertaken in diverse areas such as Database Systems, Computer Networks and Communication, Software Engineering, E-Business and Graphics. During the project, they apply their knowledge and experience gained during the course to develop IT applications as per industry requirements. The success of our MCA students is well known in the industry. Three and a half decades later, we are proud of our alumni holding fop positions in many prominent IT/software companies all over the globe.
M.Sc. Computer Science programme is the flagship programme of the department aimed at inculcating innovative thinking. The focus of this program is to develop research skills, in addition to imparting relevant theoretical knowledge and practical skills in the global context. The students complete a minor project in the third semester and a major project in the fourth semester. Project areas include Algorithms, Parallel Computing, Semantic Web, Computer Security, Artificial Intelligence, Computer Networks, Data mining, Text mining, Network Analytics etc.. A decade later, we have more than dozen alumni who are either pursuing or have completed doctoral studies from prestigious universities in India and abroad. Majority of our MSc students are contributing to software companies.
The Department is proud to have more than 1200 alumni holding important positions in IT industry and academic at national and international levels.


Vasudha Bhatnagar
Head of the Department
